
Converged IP/MPLS Networks (QoE/QoS Engineering, L3/L2 VPN, VPWS, CR-LDP, I-BGP, IPSec, PLSB, SPB, TRILL) 
* Scalable and Secure Provider Provisioned IP VPN 
●	Project involved studying the issues related to scaling IPSec over RFC 4364 (L3 VPN)  and CPE based IP-VPN.
●	Extended I-BGP using multi-protocol extensions to enable IP route auto-discovery feature and scale IPSec SA associations linearly.
●	Demonstrated the feature on Nortel’s security gateway based on VxWorks platform.
●	This advanced technology project was show cased in Nortel’s internal technology showcase called TechExpo-2003/2004.

Access and Multi-Hop Pseudo Wire for Layer 2 Transport
●	Developed advanced MPLS Pseudo Wire feature demonstrating Access Pseudo Wire and multi-segment service provider Pseudo Wire stitching concepts over MPLS switched network.
●	Was responsible to extend CR-LDP as part of the IP/MPLS stack implemented over LINUX OS to enable the above features.
●	Participated in early discussion with PLSB/SPB pioneers, knowledge of Data Center Networking protocols like TRILL.
●	This technology prototype also augmented Nortel’s advanced Pseudo Wire proposals for IETF. 
●	Demonstrated the advanced protocol feature over Nortel’s Multi-Service Edge Router. 
●	Demonstrated the prototype at MPLS conference and several major service provider’s advanced technology showcases

QoE Oriented Engineering Process for Multimedia Applications 
●	Developed a top-down engineering applicable to Access networks. Framework tries to achieve user QoE on a converged network with multiple multimedia applications. 
●	Studied several problems related to QoE engineering including Capacity Planning, QoS Budgeting, Service Profiling, Traffic Modeling and engineering nodal Queuing/Scheduling schemes. 
●	Conducted case studies on multiple access networks (UMTS/IPTV/CDMA) to validate the engineering process.
●	The framework was used to evolve QoE based engineering guidelines for Nortel's WiMax service delivery network planners using modeling and simulation analysis.
●	Resulted in valuable IPRs and conference publications.

Optical Networking Systems (GMPLS, L1-VPN, O-UNI, OSPF-TE, RSVP-TE, CR-LDP)
* Optical Metro Initiative Network (OMNINET) 
●	OMNINET was world’s first all-optical research network that enabled 10Gig Ethernet point-to-point wavelength switched connectivity.
●	As part of the control plane design team, was responsible to extend OSPF-TE for constrained based wavelength routing based on IETF’s GMPLS recommendations. 
●	Extended Dijkstra’s shortest path first algorithm to enable explicit dynamic routing over wavelength switched optical network. 
●	Research contribution towards addressing routing and wavelength assignment problem.
●	The work resulted in valuable IPR in the area of wavelength routing in photonic networks.










Generalized Layer 1 Virtual Private Networks 
●	Technology demonstrator of provisioning L1 VPN using GMPLS based control plane.
●	Involved in prototyping and augmenting Nortel proposed Generalized L1 VPN IETF proposal.
●	Implemented and extended multi-protocol extended I-BGP for VPN membership discovery.
●	The work was also extended to demonstrate Virtual Private Switched Networks.
●	Generated two patents and publications related to addressing problems related to dynamic routing and signaling between IP and Optical domains.


4G Wireless Access System Projects (WiMax , LTE) (Nortel)
WiMax MAC QoS Scheduling Mechanisms, Capacity Planning, Provisioning of Multimedia Services
●	Simulation and Modeling of end-to-end network with WiMax access with multiple QoS service classes following recommendations and standards from IEEE 802.16e and WiMax forum.
●	Simulation and performance analysis of multimedia applications performance over WiMax (IEEE 802.16e) using OPNET (Discrete Event Simulator).
●	Addressed engineering problems related to meeting user QoE and application requirements through cell capacity planning analysis and evolving end-to-end QoS engineering guidelines.
●	Provided MAC layer QoS provisioning recommendations for network planners for service provider network provisioning.
●	Recommendations of mapping of application to WiMax QoS service classes, ranges and threshold settings of parameters pertaining to different scheduling schemes.
●	Recommendations on engineering operating regions of service class parameters to optimize application performance while trading off control overhead.
●	Resulted in a conference publication summarizing the novel contributions from this work.

LTE eNodeB Resource Scheduling Algorithms and Interference Mitigation Strategies
●	Worked in coordination with LTE system designers to understand alternatives to Proportional Fairness scheduling algorithm in order to support QoS requirements.
●	Recommendations to improve base implementation of Proportional Fairness scheduling algorithm for LTE.
●	Research and analysis of various QoS constraint wireless packet scheduling mechanisms from literature applicable for implementation in base station for LTE.
●	Conducted research and provided recommendations of various adaptive Fractional Frequency Reuse (FFR) strategies for OFDMA systems.


